#vote-card
June 2019

This project was originally conceived of as a vote-below-the-line-card generator for the Australian Senate. The idea was to use the [They Vote For You](https://theyvoteforyou.org.au/) API to pull data on the voting patterns of Australian parliamentarians, and base the recommendations on a quantitative analysis of the user's political beliefs and the actual voting patterns of parliamentarians. In this way I hoped to remove the effect of misinformation generated by differences between how politicians speak and act on the one hand, and how they vote on the other. I also hoped to minimize the impact of our prejudices and biases.

The program asks the user to score a random selection of N policies based on agreement with a statement of that policy, and the importance of the issue. It does a similar calculation for every Australian parliamentarian in the House of Representatives and the Senate, and computes the user's weighted Euclidean distance (in an N-dimensional space) to each of those parliamentarians. The distance in each dimension represents the extent to which the user agrees or disagrees with a given parliamentarian, while the weighting captures the importance; in this way, for example, disagreement on an issue which is deemed important counts for more than one which is unimportant.

Unfortunately, this idea has a flaw: only incumbent politicians have a voting history in parliament, and so a vote-card generated in this fashion necessarily excludes anyone running for the first time. Since I could never find a solution for this, I decided to leave it as a more light-hearted who-is-your-political-spirit-animal generator.

**Example output:**
(parliamentarian, party, normalised distance)

*Five closest*

1. Andrew Wilkie 		Independent					0.2329
2. Terri Butler 		Australian Labor Party		0.2338
3. Andrew Bartlett 		Australian Greens			0.2348
4. Kerry Nettle 		Australian Greens			0.2355
5. Lisa Chester 		Australian Labor Party		0.2400	

*Five farthest*

1. Michelle Landry 		National Party				0.9968
2. Keith Pitt 			National Party				0.9981
3. David Gillespie 		National Party				0.9981
4. Andrew Broad 		National Party				0.9981
5. Jason Wood 			Liberal Party				1.0000
